# Predictive-Maintenance-Using-ML
Predictive Maintenance uses Machine Learning to learn from historical data and use live data to analyze failure patterns. Since conservative procedures result in resource wastage, Predictive Maintenance using Machine Learning looks for optimum resource utilization and predict failure before they happen.

This approach helps to cut the cost by maintaining the system only when required compared to the regular routine maintenance performed under preventive maintenance. This is achieved by using a prediction model which learns the failure pattern of a specific component. 

The task is to device a prediction model for judging whether or not a vehicle faces imminent failure of a specific component or not. The dataset consists of data collected from heavy Scania trucks in everyday usage. The system in focus is the Air Pressure system (APS) which generates pressurized air that are utilized in various functions in a truck, such as braking and gear changes. The dataset’s positive class consists of component failures for a specific component of the APS system. The negative class consists of trucks with failures for components not related to the APS. Dataset consists of Train and Test dataset; train data set has 60,000 data points out of which 59000 belong to Negative class and 1000 belong to positive class. It has total 171 attributes including the class label column, attributes have 7 histograms with each having 10 bins. Test set has 16,000 data points. 
